Building Definition
**************************

===========================================================  =============================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================   ================================================================================================================================================================================== 
Field Name                                                    Definition                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Equation
===========================================================  =============================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================   ==================================================================================================================================================================================
record_id                                                     This is the auto-generated unique identifier for each record, allowing for joins to other tables.
classtype                                                     For buildings and building types, refers to the overall class of buildings, i.e. Mixed Use, Residential, Employment, Civic, or Agricultural.
name                                                          Name of the building, building type or place type (text).
pt_num                                                        Place type number (text), sometimes used as a unique ID when referring to place types.
direction                                                     Place type compass rose direction (NW, NE, SE, SW or C), used when referring to compass rose place types.
ptid                                                          Unique identifier, combination of pt_num + direction.
place_type                                                    Name of the place type.
intersections_sqmi                                            Intersections per square mile for the place type.
gross_net_ratio                                               Gross to net ratio for the place type; it represents the amount of gross land that is developable on the net. *e.g.* A gross-to-net ratio of 0.55 means that 55% of the gross land is available for development, generally in the form of developable parcel area.
pop_density                                                   Population density is calculated as a product of household size and household density.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          pop_density = hh_average_size * hh_density
du_density                                                    For multifamily and townhome buildings du_density is calculated based on total residential built up area and the average square feet per dwelling unit. For single family homes, it is based on the size of the lot.                                                                                                                                            DU_density = residential_built_up_area_square_feet_net / square_feet_per_du_average  DU_density = square_feet_per_acre / lot_size_average
du_use_density                                                Density of dwelling units on residential parcel acres is derived as total dwelling units over parcel acres containing a residential use.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DU_use_density = DU_density / residential_use_acres
building_percent_residential                                  Percent of each building that is residential. This is an input that is used to define the characteristics of each building.
building_percent_retail                                       Percent of each building that is retail employment. This is an input that is used to define the characteristics of each building.
building_percent_office                                       Percent of each building that is office employment. This is an input that is used to define the characteristics of each building.
building_percent_industrial                                   Percent of each building that is industrial employment. This is an input that is used to define the characteristics of each building.
building_percent_agriculture                                  Percent of each building that is agricultural employment. This is an input that is used to define the characteristics of each building.
building_percent_armed_forces                                 Percent of each building that is armed forces employment. This is an input that is used to define the characteristics of each building.
floor_area_ratio                                              The Floor Area Ratio (FAR) is an input used to define the characteristics of each building. When calculating its characteristics for place types it is derived as total building square feet of gross building built up area (gross BUA) over total parcel square feet, producing net FAR (Gross FAR uses total site area as the denominator).                  floor_area_ratio = building_square_feet_total_gross / parcel_square_feet
floor_area_ratio_residential                                  The residential Floor Area Ratio (FAR) is derived differently depending on the building type. For multifamily and townhome, the calculation is based on total FAR and the residential building percent. For single family homes, the calculation involves the average single family lot size and the average square feet per dwelling unit.                     floor_area_ratio_residential = building_percent_residential * floor_area_ratio   floor_area_ratio_residential = square_feet_per_du_average / lot_size_average
floor_area_ratio_retail                                       The retail Floor Area Ratio (FAR) calculation is based on total FAR and the retail building percent.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            floor_area_ratio_retail = building_percent_retail * floor_area_ratio
floor_area_ratio_office                                       The office Floor Area Ratio (FAR) calculation is based on total FAR and the office building percent.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            floor_area_ratio_office = building_percent_office * floor_area_ratio
floor_area_ratio_industrial                                   The industrial Floor Area Ratio (FAR) calculation is based on total FAR and the industrial building percent.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    floor_area_ratio_industrial = building_percent_industrial * floor_area_ratio
floor_area_ratio_agriculture                                  The agriculture Floor Area Ratio (FAR) calculation is based on total FAR and the agriculture building percent.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  floor_area_ratio_agriculture =  building_percent_agriculture * floor_area_ratio        
floor_area_ratio_armed_forces                                 The armed forces Floor Area Ratio (FAR) calculation is based on total FAR and the armed forces building percent.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                floor_area_ratio_armed_forces = building_percent_armed_forces * floor_area_ratio                 
residential_use_acres                                         Residential use acres are defined as parcel acres containing residential use.
detached_single_family_large_lot_density                      Density of single family large lot dwelling units is derived as total single family large lot dwelling units over total parcel acres.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           detached_single_family_large_lot_density = detached_single_family_large_lot_units / parcel_acres        
detached_single_family_small_lot_density                      Density of single family small lot dwelling units is derived as total single family small lot dwelling units over total parcel acres.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           detached_single_family_small_lot_density = detached_single_family_small_lot_units / parcel_acres    
attached_single_family_density                                Density of single family attached (town home) dwelling units is derived as total single family attached dwelling units over total parcel acres.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 attached_single_family_density = attached_single_family_units / parcel_acres   
multifamily_density                                           Density of multifamily dwelling units on total parcel acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     multifamily_density = multifamily_units / parcel_acres       
hh_density                                                    Density of households is derived from total dwelling units based on the vacancy rate.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           hh_density = DU_density * (1 - residential_vacancy_rate)       
hh1_percent                                                   Percent of all households with one person. This is an input that is used to define the distribution of households by size.
hh2_percent                                                   Percent of all households with two people. This is an input that is used to define the distribution of households by size.
hh3_percent                                                   Percent of all households with three people. This is an input that is used to define the distribution of households by size.
hh4_percent                                                   Percent of all households with four people. This is an input that is used to define the distribution of households by size.
hh5p_percent                                                  Percent of all households with five or more people. This is an input that is used to define the distribution of households by size.
hh1                                                           Number of households with one person. This is derived from the percent of all households with one person and the total number of households.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    hh1 = hh1_percent * hh_density
hh2                                                           Number of households with one person. This is derived from the percent of all households with one person and the total number of households.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    hh2 = hh2_percent * hh_density
hh3                                                           Number of households with one person. This is derived from the percent of all households with one person and the total number of households.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    hh3 = hh3_percent * hh_density
hh4                                                           Number of households with one person. This is derived from the percent of all households with one person and the total number of households.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    hh4 = hh4_percent * hh_density
hh5p                                                          Number of households with one person. This is derived from the percent of all households with one person and the total number of households.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    hh5 = hh5_percent * hh_density
hh_average_size                                               Average household size. This is derived from the number of households by household size category and the total number of households.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            hh_average_size =  ((hh1 * 1) + (hh2 * 2) + (hh3 * 3) + (hh4 * 4) + (hh5 * 5)) / hh_density
residential_vacancy_rate                                      Unoccupied percentage of total dwelling units (inverse of occupancy rate); building-level input.
square_feet_per_du_average                                    Average square feet per residential dwelling unit. This is an input that is used to calculate residential density, among other things.
residential_built_up_area_square_feet_gross                   Total square feet of building associated with residential uses, including common areas. This is derived from the residential Floor Area Ratio (FAR).                                                                                                                                                                                                            residential_built_up_area_square_feet_gross = floor_area_ratio_residential * square_feet_per_acre
residential_percent_efficiency                                The percent of residential_built_up_area_square_feet_gross that is leasable to tenants; the inverse of which represents residential common areas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
residential_built_up_area_square_feet_net                     The leasable portion of a residential building; that is, the amount contained within dwelling units, excluding indoor residential common areas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 residential_built_up_area_square_feet_net = residential_built_up_area_square_feet_gross * residential_percent_efficiency
emp_density                                                   The density of total employees (workers at work) per acre. This is calculated by summing the densities of each of the employment types.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         emp_density = emp_retail_density + emp_office_density + emp_industrial_density + emp_agriculture_density + emp_armed_forces_density
emp_use_density                                               Density of employees (workers at work) on employment parcel acres is derived as total employees over parcel acres containing an employment use.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EMP_use_density = EMP_density / employment_use_acres
employment_use_acres                                          Employment use acres are defined as parcel acres containing an employment use.                                     
emp_retail_density                                            The density of total retail employees (workers at work) per acre. This is calculated based on the net retail building square feet and the square feet per retail employee.                                                                                                                                                                                      emp_retail_density = building_square_feet_retail_net / square_feet_per_retail_employee_average          
emp_office_density                                            The density of total office employees (workers at work) per acre. This is calculated based on the net office building square feet and the square feet per office employee.                                                                                                                                                                                      emp_office_density = building_square_feet_office_net / square_feet_per_office_employee_average
emp_industrial_density                                        The density of total industrial employees (workers at work) per acre. This is calculated based on the net industrial building square feet and the square feet per industrial employee.                                                                                                                                                                          emp_industrial_density = building_square_feet_industrial_net / square_feet_per_industrial_employee_average
emp_agriculture_density                                       The density of total agricultural employees (workers at work) per acre. This is calculated based on the net agricultural building square feet and the square feet per agricultural employee.                                                                                                                                                                    emp_agriculture_density = building_square_feet_agriculture_net / square_feet_per_agricultural_employee_average        
emp_armed_forces_density                                      The density of total armed forces employees (workers at work) per acre. This is calculated based on the net armed forces building square feet and the square feet per armed forces employee.                                                                                                                                                                    emp_armed_forces_density = building_square_feet_armed_forces_net / _feet_per_armed_forces_employee_average             
square_feet_per_retail_employee_average                       The amount of net building square feet per retail employee; this is a building-level input.
square_feet_per_office_employee_average                       The amount of net building square feet per office employee; this is a building-level input.
square_feet_per_industrial_employee_average                   The amount of net building square feet per industrial employee; this is a building-level input.
square_feet_per_agricultural_employee_average                 The amount of net building square feet per agricultural employee; this is a building-level input.
square_feet_per_armed_forces_employee_average                 The amount of net building square feet per armed forces employee; this is a building-level input.
retail_percent_efficiency                                     The percent of building_square_feet_retail_gross that is leasable to tenants; the inverse of which represents building common areas. This is a building-level input.
office_percent_efficiency                                     The percent of building_square_feet_office_gross that is leasable to tenants; the inverse of which represents building common areas. This is a building-level input.
industrial_percent_efficiency                                 The percent of building_square_feet_industrial_gross that is leasable to tenants; the inverse of which represents building common areas. This is a building-level input.
agriculture_percent_efficiency                                The percent of building_square_feet_agriculture_gross that is leasable to tenants; the inverse of which represents building common areas. This is a building-level input.
armed_forces_percent_efficiency                               The percent of building_square_feet_armed_forces_gross that is leasable to tenants; the inverse of which represents building common areas. This is a building-level input.
building_square_feet_total_gross
building_square_feet_total_net
building_square_feet_retail_gross                             Total square feet of building associated with retail uses, including common areas. This is derived from the retail Floor Area Ratio (FAR).                                                                                                                                                                                                                      building_square_feet_retail_gross = floor_area_ratio_retail * square_feet_per_acre
building_square_feet_office_gross                             Total square feet of building associated with office uses, including common areas. This is derived from the office Floor Area Ratio (FAR).                                                                                                                                                                                                                      building_square_feet_office_gross = floor_area_ratio_office * square_feet_per_acre              
building_square_feet_industrial_gross                         Total square feet of building associated with industrial uses, including common areas. This is derived from the industrial Floor Area Ratio (FAR).                                                                                                                                                                                                              building_square_feet_industrial_gross = floor_area_ratio_industrial * square_feet_per_acre           
building_square_feet_agriculture_gross                        Total square feet of building associated with agricultural uses, including common areas. This is derived from the agricultural Floor Area Ratio (FAR).                                                                                                                                                                                                          building_square_feet_agriculture_gross = floor_area_ratio_agriculture * square_feet_per_acre        
building_square_feet_armed_forces_gross                       Total square feet of building associated with armed forces uses, including common areas. This is derived from the armed forces Floor Area Ratio (FAR).                                                                                                                                                                                                          building_square_feet_armed_forces_gross = floor_area_ratio_armed_forces * square_feet_per_acre                           
building_square_feet_retail_net                               The leasable retail portion of building; that is, the amount contained within retail stores, excluding indoor building common areas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            building_square_feet_retail_net = building_square_feet_retail_gross * retail_percent_efficiency                   
building_square_feet_office_net                               The leasable office portion of building, excluding indoor building common areas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                building_square_feet_office_net = building_square_feet_office_gross * office_percent_efficiency                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
building_square_feet_industrial_net                           The leasable industrial portion of building; excluding indoor building common areas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            building_square_feet_industrial_net = building_square_feet_industrial_gross * industrial_percent_efficiency  
building_square_feet_agriculture_net                          The leasable agricultural portion of building; excluding indoor building common areas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          building_square_feet_agriculture_net = building_square_feet_agriculture_gross * agriculture_percent_efficiency 
building_square_feet_armed_forces_net                         After excluding building common areas, the remainder of a building used for armed forces employees.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             building_square_feet_armed_forces_net = building_square_feet_agriculture_gross * agriculture_percent_efficiency 
building_square_feet_detached_single_family                   The total square feet of single family detached homes is the sum of small lot and large lot single family detached home square footage.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         building_square_feet_detached_single_family = building_square_feet_detached_single_family_large_lot + building_square_feet_detached_single_family_small_lot           
building_square_feet_detached_single_family_small_lot         The total square feet of single family detached small lot homes is derived from the total number of single family detached small lot DU and the average square feet per SFSLDU.                                                                                                                                                                                 building_square_feet_detached_single_family_small_lot = detached_single_family_small_lot_density * square_feet_per_du_average            
building_square_feet_detached_single_family_large_lot         The total square feet of single family detached large lot homes is derived from the total number of single family detached large lot DU and the average square feet per SFLLDU.                                                                                                                                                                                 building_square_feet_detached_single_family_large_lot = detached_single_family_large_lot_density * square_feet_per_du_average
building_square_feet_attached_single_family                   The total square feet of single family attached homes is derived from the total number of single family attached DU and the average square feet per attached DU.                                                                                                                                                                                                building_square_feet_attached_single_family = attached_single_family_density * square_feet_per_du_average
building_square_feet_multifamily                              The total square feet of multifamily housing is derived from the total number of multifamily DU and the average square feet per multifamily DU.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 building_square_feet_multifamily = multifamily_density * square_feet_per_du_average
building_square_feet_residential_commons                      The non-leasable portion of a residential building; that is, the amount contained within indoor residential common areas, outside of private dwelling units. This is calculated based on total gross residential built up area and the residential percent efficiency.                                                                                          building_square_feet_residential_commons = residential_building_square_feet_gross * (1 - residential_percent_efficiency)
parcel_square_feet                                            Parcel_square_feet is derived directly from parcel_acres by converting from acres to square feet.                           
parcel_acres                                                  Parcel_acres AKA developable land, can be “sensed” from GIS data, actually describing the amount of acreage contained within a parcel or parcels within a study area. It can be derived based on urban form characteristics, for instance by multiplying block length by block width. Or, it can be derived based on a net-to-gross ratio.
parcel_acres_residential                                      The total acres of parcels containing only residential uses is calculated by summing the area of parcels containing buildings with only residential uses.                                                                                                                                                                                                       parcel_acres_residential = total_land_acres * SUM(residential_parcel_percentage)                                                 
parcel_acres_residential_detached_single_family_small_lot     The total acres of parcels containing only residential single family large lot development is calculated by summing the area of large-lot parcels containing single family buildings.                                                                                                                                                                           parcel_acres_residential_detached_single_family_large_lot = total_land_acres * Sum(residential_detached_single_family_large_lot_parcel_percentage)
parcel_acres_residential_detached_single_family_large_lot     The total acres of parcels containing only residential single family small lot development is calculated by summing the area of small-lot parcels containing single family buildings.                                                                                                                                                                           parcel_acres_residential_detached_single_family_small_lot = total_land_acres * Sum(residential_detached_single_family_small_lot_parcel_percentage)
parcel_acres_residential_attached_single_family               The total acres of parcels containing only attached residential single family development is calculated by summing the area of parcels containing single family attached buildings.                                                                                                                                                                             parcel_acres_residential_attached_single_family = total_land_acres * Sum(residential_attached_single_family_parcel_percentage)
parcel_acres_residential_multifamily                          The total acres of parcels containing residential multifamily development is calculated by summing the area of parcels containing multifamily buildings.                                                                                                                                                                                                        parcel_acres_residential_multifamily = total_land_acres Sum(residential_multifamily_parcel_percentage)                                                                                
parcel_acres_employment                                       The total acres of parcels containing only employment uses is calculated by summing the area of parcels containing buildings with only employment uses.                                                                                                                                                                                                         parcel_acres_employment = total_land_acres * Sum(employment_parcel_percentage)                                                                         
parcel_acres_employment_office                                The total acres of parcels containing office employment development is calculated by summing the area of parcels containing buildings with an office use.                                                                                                                                                                                                       parcel_acres_employment_office = total_land_acres * Sum(employment_office_parcel_percentage)       
parcel_acres_employment_retail                                The total acres of parcels containing retail employment development is calculated by summing the area of parcels containing buildings with a retail use.                                                                                                                                                                                                        parcel_acres_employment_retail = total_land_acres * Sum(employment_retail_parcel_percentage)                      
parcel_acres_employment_industrial                            The total acres of parcels containing industrial employment development is calculated by summing the area of parcels containing buildings with an industrial use.                                                                                                                                                                                               parcel_acres_employment_industrial = total_land_acres * Sum(employment_industrial_parcel_percentage)        
parcel_acres_employment_agricultural                          The total acres of parcels containing agricultural employment development is calculated by summing the area of parcels containing buildings with an agricultural use.                                                                                                                                                                                           parcel_acres_employment_agricultural = total_land_acres * Sum(employment_agricultural_parcel_percentage)          
parcel_acres_employment_armed_forces                          The total acres of parcels containing armed forces employment development is calculated by summing the area of parcels containing buildings with an armed forces use.                                                                                                                                                                                           parcel_acres_employment_armed_forces = total_land_acres * Sum(employment_armed_forces_parcel_percentage)         
parcel_acres_employment_mixed                                 The total acres of parcels containing a mix of employment uses is calculated by summing the area of parcels containing buildings with a mix of employment uses.                                                                                                                                                                                                 parcel_acres_employment_mixed = total_land_acres * Sum(employment_mixed_parcel_percentage)         
parcel_acres_mixed_use                                        The total acres of parcels containing a mix of residential and employment uses is calculated by summing the area of parcels containing buildings with both residential and employment uses.                                                                                                                                                                     parcel_acres_mixed_use = total_land_acres * Sum(mixed_use_parcel_percentage)      
parcel_acres_mixed_use_with_office                            The total acres of parcels containing a mix of residential and employment uses, including office employment, is calculated by summing the area of parcels containing buildings with a mix of residential and employment uses with more than zero office employees.                                                                                              parcel_acres_mixed_use_with_office = total_land_acres Sum(mixed_use_with_office_parcel_percentage) 
parcel_acres_mixed_use_no_office                              The total acres of parcels containing a mix of residential and employment uses, excluding office employment, is calculated by summing the area of parcels containing buildings with a mix of residential and employment uses with no office employees.                                                                                                          parcel_acres_mixed_use_no_office = total_land_acres * Sum(mixed_use_no_office_parcel_percentage)        
residential_square_feet_irrigated                             The total square feet of irrigated yard on residential parcels; calculated by summing the average amount of irrigated yard for each participating residential building.                                                                                                                                                                                         residential_square_feet_irrigated = Sum(residential_parcel_irrigated_square_feet)        
employment_square_feet_irrigated                              The total square feet of irrigated landscaping on employment parcels; calculated by summing the average amount of irrigated landscaping for each participating employment building.                                                                                                                                                                             employment_square_feet_irrigated = Sum(employment_parcel_irrigated_square_feet)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
land_percentage_mixed_use                                     The percentage of total acres containing a mix of residential and employment parcels; this is calculated based on total area and the area of parcels containing buildings with both residential and employment uses.                                                                                                                                            land_percentage_mixed_use = parcel_acres_mixed_use / total_land_acres      
land_percentage_residential                                   The percentage of total acres containing solely residential parcels; this is calculated based on total area and the area of parcels containing buildings with residential-only uses.                                                                                                                                                                            land_percentage_residential = parcel_acres_residential / total_land_acres           
land_percentage_employment                                    The percentage of total acres containing solely employment parcels; this is calculated based on total area and the area of parcels containing buildings with employment-only uses.                                                                                                                                                                              land_percentage_employment = parcel_acres_employment / total_land_acres          
urban_land_development_category                               The urban Land Development Category (LDC) occurs within an urban design context including more than 150 walkable street intersections per square mile for a place type. It also features a high amount of residential and employment density. The LDC describes the most walkable, transit-oriented, low-Vehicle-Miles-Traveled (VMT) city environments.
compact_land_development_category                             The intent of the compact LDC is to describe walkable, somewhat-transit-oriented, low-to-medium-VMT neighborhood environments.
standard_land_development_category                            The intent of the standard LDC is to describe less-walkable, automobile-oriented, medium-to-high-VMT suburban environments.
colorhex
===========================================================  =============================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================   ================================================================================================================================================================================== 

